Alhamdulillah, O Lord of the worlds
The Most Merciful, the Most Merciful
Owner of the Day of Judgment
It is You we worship, and it is You we ask for help
Guide us to the straight path
The path that You have bestowed upon them
Not the one who is angry with them
Assalamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu
In the name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful
All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the worlds
And peace and blessings be upon the one sent to the worlds
Our Prophet Muhammad, and upon his family, companions and followers
And those who follow them with kindness until the Day of Judgment and after
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We send complete blessings and salutations upon Muhammad peace be upon him
And all his companions, his entire household
May Allah bless them and may He bless every single one of us
And grant us goodness, Ameen
Beloved brothers and sisters, we pause for a moment in support of a brother of ours
Who was martyred a few days ago
Or should I say, precisely the day before yesterday
Here in the northwestern province
Whilst he was teased about the beard that he had grown
And that resulted in an argument which resulted in a fight
Which resulted in his murder
We stand in solidarity with him, making dua for him
We say
May Allah grant him Jannah
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant his family also the sabr and the patience
That is required to bear this particular difficulty that has come in their direction
But the good news is he was granted a month of Ramadan
And at the same time, he died as a result of people teasing him
Because of him uplifting the Sunnah of Muhammad peace be upon him
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
A few days ago we were making mention of how we are so fortunate to be from amongst those
Who can practice our deen so freely
And here we have an incident that has come as a gash to us all
And we feel it every single one of us without exception
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection
And may He really grant the deceased Jannah
And the day He takes us away, may He grant us Jannah as well
The Prophet ﷺ was also laughed at
He was also scoffed at
And all those who believed were also looked at in a way
That was very very light on the part of the disbelievers and heavy in the hearts of the believers
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect the women folk as well as the men folk
The ummah at large
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us peace
Not only in this country or in this region but across the globe
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless all those and protect those who are suffering in one way or another across the globe
In the third year of Hijra there was something made prohibited
Which was clarified very very clearly in the Quran
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
Do not marry the polytheists no matter what
It is prohibited to marry those who worship more than one deity
Those who worship gods besides Allah or with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Totally prohibited
Allah says to marry a slave girl who is believing is far better than to marry those who are polytheists
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
And this is why Allah has prohibited it both ways
Neither are the men allowed to marry women who are polytheists
Nor are the women allowed to marry men who are polytheists
That's the law
It was dictated by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
We do not ask questions
Today people say sometimes why is it the case?
Well common sense is if you cannot even come to common grounds on faith
How are you going to come on common grounds with everything else?
And this is why I usually like to give the example of people who have totally different diet requirements
For example you have a person who is on a seafood diet
When we say seafood we mean the real seafood
Not seafood as in he sees food and he eats
No
But rather seafood as in that which comes from the ocean
And you have another person who is a vegetarian completely
And the two of them get married
The marriage may work but there will come a time when one will be fed up of the other
Because for how long are you going to be having totally separate kitchens which have cooked totally separate items
If we understand this about food
What about deal which is far more important
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect our generations
And may he make us from amongst those who are not confused
And at the same time may he grant us an understanding
Thereafter in the fourth year of Hijra
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam was blessed with another grandchild by the name of Al-Husayn ibn Ali radiallahu anhu
Previous year he had been blessed with Al-Hasan ibn Ali
So Al-Hasan wa Al-Husayn radiallahu anhum they were not twins
But there was a gap of approximately a year between them
The older being Al-Hasan ibn Ali radiallahu anhu
The younger being Al-Husayn ibn Ali radiallahu anhu
And this was a blessing the family of the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
He was granted a grandson
He had had another grandson known as Abdullah ibn Uthman radiallahu anhu
Who had also passed away in infancy
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us children who will be the coolness of our eyes
Who will also be able to serve the Deen in the same way that Al-Hasan wa Al-Husayn radiallahu anhum did
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us Jannah
For having looked after our children and given them the Deen
Indeed it is something very great
Sometimes we have to correct ourselves because I say
We need and this is a fact
Sometimes we need attention we need to be corrected
And yet on our shoulders has been placed the duty of correcting our own children
So we need to take it very seriously
It's a big responsibility
We should not be behaving like little children
When Allah has blessed us already with children who look up to us for guidance
Whilst we ourselves are still in search of guidance
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala guide us and help us to guide our own children
Then the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
One of his brothers, foster brothers
Whose name was Abu Salamah
This Abu Salamah was the first person who made Hijrah
If you recall his wife Umm Salamah
Was the one who was separated from him when he was making Hijrah
And his clan came and took the child away as well
She was separated three ways
One is she had lost
Firstly she was on her own
Secondly her husband was separated
He was in Madina Munawwara
The child was with the family of the husband
And she was on her own being blocked
She says she cried for more than a year
If you recall we mentioned it a few days ago
And this Umm Salamah
Radhiallahu anha
Her name was Hind binti Abi Umayyah
She lost her husband Abu Salamah
And a beautiful discussion had taken place between them before his death
You see sometimes husband and wife get together
And they discuss and they chat out of love
And they say you know if I die don't marry anyone else
And the other one says if you die
I won't marry anyone else
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us spouses who are the coolness of our eyes
So Umm Salamah says
Oh Abu Salamah
If you were to die I wouldn't marry again
I've heard that you would be in paradise with your spouse
And so I won't marry again
Who will be as good as you?
Oh Abu Salamah
Who is there that can be as good as you
In your trustworthiness, your honor, your dignity, your iman
Your sacrifice and so on
And Abu Salamah said
Oh Allah
When I die grant her a better husband than me
Subhanallah
This was a dua
And although Umm Salamah was quite reluctant
It is reported that after he passed away and after the iddah
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radhiallahu anhu had proposed to her
Or had requested
And she politely turned it down
Showed a disinterest
The same applies to Umar bint Al-Khattab radhiallahu anhu
According to the books of history
They say that she had politely said no
Until a day came when the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
Proposed for Umm Salamah radhiallahu anhu
One of the reasons was
She was obviously a widow
She was older than Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
And she had made this quite clear
When she accepted the proposal
Look I'm older than you
But at the same time it was her sacrifice for the deen
She was one of those who sacrificed so much
And she had had a great respect
Amongst the believers male and female
And the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam did not want to leave her
As a woman who had no guardian and so on
So the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam proposed for her
And he married her
Salallahu alaihi wasallam
Thereafter hostilities began once again
In the fourth year of Hijra in Safar
Prior to this there were a few skirmishes
Where you find some people had come in
They tried to harm
And the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent a small army
Or a platoon to deal with them and so on
In this particular instance there was
Some people who had come to Al-Madeen Al-Munawarah
And they had requested that
The Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent with them
Some companions to teach them the Quran
And so the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent
Ten of his companions
From amongst them was
He sent them to a place known as Al-Rajiyah
And what had happened
The people who had come requesting in Madinah Al-Munawarah
They were a group of people from Adal and Al-Qara
Adal and Al-Qara, two little clans
The Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent with them ten people
When they went on the road, on the path
These people changed their mind
They executed all ten companions
And this was a disaster
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
This was a disaster
They sought the assistance of Hudayl
Hudayl was a tribe
And they sought their assistance
They executed them
Similar time, round about similar time
There was a group of people
With a leader known as Amir ibn Malik
He had come from Najd
And he did not accept Islam
But he had come to Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
He heard about Islam and he was very keen
And he said, look, why don't you send a group of people to Najd
The Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam says, I fear the people of Najd
They might harm my people
He says, I give my guarantee
With my guarantee, nothing will happen
And as you know at that time, the guarantees used to work
So the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam sent with them
Seventy qurra
Qurra meaning those reciters of the Quran
Who knew the Quran very very well
And as they left, they got to a place known as
Bi'ri Ma'unah
Where the well of Ma'unah was
And what had happened at that particular place
The group of Muslims sent
Haram ibn Malhan
He was one of them
Radhiallahu anha Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Grant him goodness
He was sent with a letter
To the leader of Bani Amir
Whose name was Amir ibn al-Tufail
And this Amir ibn al-Tufail
Amir ibn al-Tufail
He had had this letter
Without reading it
He heard these people are Muslimin
He executed this man
For no reason
Now this doesn't happen
You do not execute an ambassador
An ambassador is there to present a message
You either accept it or reject it
Or you give back whatever you have to say
Either positive or negative
And you let him proceed
From that time up to this day
It is very very unacceptable
To kill an ambassador or execute a messenger
Who has come to you with a message
Imagine a postman comes to you
With a message of someone else
And you execute him
Because you don't like the message
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
If that was the case
We wouldn't have postmen at all
Allahu Akbar
So when that happened
It caused a little bit of a disaster
These were 70 men from amongst the Muslimin
And this man who had killed
Haram ibn Malhan
What he did is
He called his people
Banu Amir
That come, let's come to my assistance
Because the rest of them are going to come and attack
Banu Amir said no
These people have the guarantee of Amir ibn Malik
So we are not going to assist against him
And against them
And when that happened
This man Amir ibn Tufail
He called some other tribes and clans from nearby
Come and help
Who were they?
The tribe of R'al
The tribe of the Kwan
The tribe of Usayya
They came in
And they executed all those companions
Besides one or two of them
Who pretended that they were also from amongst the dead
But they had not died
And when this happened
The news got to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He was so sad
He was very very sad
And he made dua for them
And at the same time
They read what was known as Qunoot Nazila
Qunoot Nazila meaning in Salah
Salatul Fajr, Salatul Isha
The winter of Salah
There is difference of opinion
Because it was done differently
Sometimes he read in Fajr
Sometimes he read in Isha in the winter
Sometimes before Ruku'
Sometimes after Ruku'
And this is why up to this day
The dua of Qunoot is read either before or after
All of them are valid and correct
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the ability to adopt
The Sunnah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
This Qunoot Nazila
Because of this that had happened
And even previously the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Had engaged in it
But at this particular time
It's reported that for almost a month
If not a little bit more
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam made dua
Against these people in Salah
These clans of R'il and the Qu'an and so on
Those who had engaged in hostilities
By executing those believers
Then within Madinatul Munawwara
As you know Banu Qaynuqa' were living there
And they had been expelled because
Of what they had done to a Muslim female
And because they broke their treaty
Which was signed when the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Entered into Madinatul Munawwara
Now there was another from amongst these people
Another group slightly on the outskirts of Madinatul Munawwara
Known as Banu al-Nadir
Banu al-Nadir they were siding with
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul
And when the Muslims had suffered some form of loss
On the day of Uhud
They were from amongst those who were very excited
Even on the day of Badr they were very upset
That the Muslims had won
And they used to cause a lot of problem
And a lot of what we would term fitna
And therefore what had happened
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam was already warned about them
And they were waiting for a moment
To execute the messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So much so they tried to get him to sit in one place
Where from the top they could throw a rock on him
Sallallahu alayhi wasallam
So that he could be executed or he could be killed
And what happened?
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala informed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Look at the plan
They were caught red handed
They had hatched the plan
They had ensured Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Went to sit in a specific place
And then from the top they were about to throw a boulder
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala exposed them
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam thereafter
Sent to them Muhammad ibn Maslamah r.a
One of the companions
And told them look you prepare to leave and go away
We are expelling you in goodness
You have broken your treaty
You have intended to harm and to murder
And you want to murder the leader of the Muslims
Meaning the messenger sallallahu alayhi wasallam
You now need to leave this place
We are giving you a short space of time
They began to prepare to leave
As they started preparing their man came to them
Who was their man?
Hippocrates of Madina Munawwara
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul
This Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul came to them
The Quran speaks of what happened
Arabic
Allah says don't you see the Hippocrates
They are telling their brethren
From amongst the people of the Book
That if you are expelled we will come out
with you which means we are going to stand in support of you and we will not
follow anyone regarding you and if you are fought we will fight alongside you so
don't leave stay where you are put up a fight this is what Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala exposed the hypocrites about this hypocrite had gone there and he
told them that look we will fight with you don't leave and if they fight
you we will fight back and why don't you put up a fight against them and so on
and Allah says Allah best witness these hypocrites are liars
if they are expelled these hypocrites are not going to
leave with them why would they leave with them and if they are fought these
people are lying they will not assist them not at all
and even if they had to come to help them they would flee they would run away
because the hypocrites don't have anything to fight for these people of
Banu Nadir they would be fighting for something but the hypocrites are
promising them false promises so when this had happened they decided to
keep themselves within their fort they were heavily fortified Banu Nadir and
they thought this fort of ours nobody will be able to penetrate it so what
happened Muhammad ibn Maslamah had sent message to Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam this was just in the outskirts of Medina Munawwarah and the
Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam went to them with an army surrounded
them for six nights he surrounded them and then fear gripped them
Allah says subhanahu wa ta'ala
you O Muslims did not expect them to leave and they felt that our fortress
will protect us from Allah we won't be able to be harmed and Allah says
Allah got to them from a plane from a point that they had not expected and
fear overtook them what was the fear that suddenly overtook them in six
nights they remembered Banu Qaynuqa the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
surrounded them for two weeks more than two weeks and Banu Qaynuqa were
then ordered to leave and so the point of fear that gripped them was
this man is a hypocrite he lied to us and he's not coming to our assistance
here we're putting up a fight it's been six days we are surrounded no one
has come to our help and so therefore they decided to make peace what was the
peace they said look we are seeking from you to leave quietly we will
leave this place this area remember they were not from there anyway these
people were not from there they had come from far away from
and now they went back to and some of them stayed in Khyber some of the
older people such as he stayed in Khyber and the others
went further up and Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala says
Surah al-Hashr was revealed mainly regarding Banu al-Nadir and if we go
back home this evening and read Surah al-Hashr we will find we will
understand what Allah subhanahu wa'ta'ala has said because now we know
Banu al-Nadir and we know what happened to them and what they did
something very strange they were granted respite they said we will go we're not
going to take our properties and all that because we won't be able to take
anything more than what one camel can carry so they were allowed a camel
each and that camel was to have their belongings on and they were told to
leave everything else they had to leave now they did something strange
they did not want the Muslims to live in their homes after they left
so what did they do typical Banu al-Nadir they started breaking their
houses destroying their homes breaking their property damaging everything
why because they didn't want the Muslimin to come and stay there so
Allah makes mention of this in the Quran
they were damaging their houses by their own hands and the hands of the
believers Allah says so therefore ponder take heed learn a lesson oh you who
have vision oh you who have intellect take heed learn a lesson look at how
foolish they were what did they gain from that anyway that was Banu al-Nadir
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention of them in the Quran and this is why
when they left they had left quite a lot of their belongings quite a lot of
their wealth and so on this the Muslims had got without a wall all
they did was they surrounded these people who broke the treaty how did
they break the treaty they wanted to kill the messenger and on top of
that they aided the hypocrites and on top of that they were causing lots
of fires and Allah exposed them so they broke their treaty the Muslims
surrounded them they left now whatever property was there Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala declares this as al-fai al-fai is different from al-anfal and al-fal
are the spoils of war where battle has taken place we can call it the
booty of war or spoils of war these are all names of the property left
behind by the disbelievers after they were fought and in this case there was
no fighting so it is called al-fai that which the Muslims got without a
battle without a war and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala declares the
ruling about al-fai Allah says
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala speaks about how this fai belongs to Allah and his
messenger and they will distribute it according to the instruction of Allah
amongst the poor the family members and so on and those who are needy and
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention of various categories of
people again in Surat al-Hashr so this was also a ruling that Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala had made mention of in this particular instance two people from
amongst Banu al-Nadheer accepted Islam and they were from amongst those who
were allowed to stay they accepted Islam and became very good Sahaba of
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam this was as far as Banu al-Nadheer
go and as I said wallahi if we are able to read Surat al-Hashr the
English meaning of it we would be doing ourselves a great favor by looking at
what happened very very interesting it's quite clear and quite easy to
understand so perhaps we could pick up the Quran and look at Surat al-Hashr
and and inshallah read the verses so that we can achieve some of what had
happened at that particular time understand it and learn lesson from it
then there was something that happened thereafter in the month of
do you recall that when the Battle of Uhud happened as Abu Sufyan was leaving
what did he say he said next year same time in Badr we meet again and he
left so the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he prepared his army and he
prepared 1,500 men according to some narrations he had almost 60 horsemen
and they started proceeding to Badr because they had an appointed time with
the Mushrik's of Mecca and in the meantime Abu Sufyan prepared 2,000 men
and he started moving also towards Badr he started moving towards Badr and
thereafter he hired a man this man's name was Noaim ibn Mas'ud al-Asja'i
so Abu Sufyan hires him and told him go to the Muslims who are just
about leaving Medina and so on tell them we have prepared a huge army and
we are coming to wipe them out so this man went and he told the messenger
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam I am here messenger I am telling you I'm warning
you that Abu Sufyan has prepared a huge army coming to wipe you out and
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention of this in the Quran
those whom the people came to them the people here referring to this man
Noaim ibn Mas'ud he was a person he came to them and told them that the
people which means Abu Sufyan and them have prepared a huge army against you
and they are coming in order to attack you so that statement instead
of instilling fear in the believers Allah says it instilled it increased
them in conviction and it actually strengthened their Eman and they said
Hasbunallahu wa ni'mal wakil first statement uttered Allah is enough for
us Allah is sufficient for us and he is the best disposer of our
affairs now this statement is a powerful statement the hadith the
Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam says that Ibrahim alayhi salam when he was
thrown into the fire he said Hasbunallahu wa ni'mal wakil Allah is
enough for me and he is the best disposer of our affairs and it was
said again by the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam and the
mu'mineen when he was told by Noaim al-ashja'i that Abu Sufyan is
coming in order to attack you with a huge army and the same dua was
made again repeated in the Quran and this dua thereafter was made many times
how many of us when we first hear news of insecurity do we say Hasbunallahu
wa ni'mal wakil Allah is sufficient can I tell you a reality do you want
to hear it most of us when we are given bad news we sway
Allahu Akbar may Allah save Qalas we utter a word that is bad and we say
this instead of saying Hasbunallahu or Inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji'un
Hasbunallahu wa ni'mal wakil this is the Sunnah this is when we will
achieve the assistance of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not by swearing
the s-word and so on may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
protection we are Muslimin we have to be real and we have to change
our ways we have to beautify our tongues because it is only with the
tongue that is beautiful that Allah can be remembered correctly that tongue
which engages in swearing all day shouting meaning foul language
vulgar words do you really think that the same tongue can now in a correct
sense do or engage in the remembrance of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala no a
person who has engaged in the correct sense in the remembrance of
Allah will be so fearful to use the same tongue to utter those words may
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us beautiful words so this then the
Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam marched forth with his army and they
got to badr and in badr a lot of the times there were some markets that took
place some festivals that took place one was known as Mijannah as well
close in that particular area and when the Prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam got there there was no one the mushriks of Mecca did not
pitch up they did not come so what happened well Allah dealt with them
Abu Sufyan was on his way with 2,000 men and when he got to a
certain place he turned around he told his people you know what this year there
is a drought and our animals are not going to be able to really you know do
much we are all lacking some water it's not good to fight in a year like
this perhaps we should go back we'll come back the following year they
actually in our language chickened out Allahu Akbar they ran away may
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us they went back into Makkah al
Mukarramah Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness this the verses of
the Quran I've just read for you Allah says immediately after that
they returned with the gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala the virtue of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala nobody harmed them and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's
pleasure as well so this was the result of hasbunallahu wa ni'malwakeel
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us at all times now we are going to speak
about one of the battles that took place the battle itself was one thing
but what surrounded the battle in terms of incidents that occurred that were
very meaningful in the history of Islam that is of utmost importance so
let us listen very carefully there was the clan of Banu al-Mustaliq these
people if you remember a few days ago I told you remember this name Banu al-Mustaliq
they had helped Quraish when Quraish came in the battle of Uhud and Quraish
had gathered a few tribes with them one of them was Banu al-Mustaliq so
the Muslims had to pay them back number one number two is these Banu
al-Mustaliq they used to waylay some of the travelers who used to go
to Makkah as they were on the path so they used to trouble and harass
some of the people number two number three Banu al-Mustaliq were preparing an army in
order to come and harm the Muslims in Madinatul Munawwara and Allah subhanahu
wa ta'ala informed Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam they sent a spy into
Madinah Munawwara to spy for them and by that time the army of the
Muslims had already been prepared 700 men with 30 horsemen and they
had come out with some of their women and from amongst them some of
the wives of the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam he had a habit when he
had to go with his wives he would sometimes draw lots which means you
know choose pick up one of their names pick out one of their names whoever's
name is there that is the wife who would go with him sallallahu alaihi
wasallam on this instance it is reported that Aisha radiallahu anha
joined Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam one of the narrations make
mention of Ummu Salama as well Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala knows best but
Aisha radiallahu anha was definitely there and she was amongst the others
there were a few other females that had gone this spy they got hold of him and
they asked him a few questions they figured he's a spy he was executed
obviously espionage what happened he came in he was spying court martial
immediately executed that's the terminology may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us goodness that's exactly what happened in the meantime the
hypocrites had also come out in the army for the first time in the history
of Islam you find a group of hypocrites came out who were the
hypocrites Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Saloon came out himself why did he
come out with his group of people the main reason was because he saw the
Muslims are now winning everywhere they're going there were quite a few
skirmishes that happened after uhud one after the other they are going
and what happens is they are gaining in terms of whatever is left
behind by the disbelievers is coming in the hands of the Muslims and they are
becoming stronger and stronger if we go perhaps we'll also be able to get
something so Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool decides to come out with some
of his people then what happened is a place known as Al-Musayriya the army
of Al-Harith ibn Abi Dhira who was the head of Banu al-Mustaliq had come
out they met at a place known as Al-Musayriya and they had their rows of
warriors that were made and the war began by arrows being thrown at the
other side and spears and so on and this lasted for almost an hour and
after that the war began in no time the Muslims had overcome these men a
few of them were executed some of the kuffar the Muslims did not lose life but
at the same time these people began to flee and a lot of them were taken
captive prisoners of war from amongst the prisoners women and children as
well and from amongst the prisoners some men as well and they had left
behind a large amount of camels and sheep which were also taken may Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection this had happened they were the ones
who had intended harm and now they were more or less wiped out so to speak
and they were encircled they had been taken captive and hostage and so
not hostage they had been taken prisoner of war and at the same time
the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam then began to return to al-madinatul
munawwara what is very important to know when he was coming to Madinah
Munawwara he had given out the responsibility of these women who were
taken captive and children and the others to various companions so some of
them got a group the other ones got a group and a group they were all
given these responsibilities from amongst them was the daughter of al-
that man had fled but his daughter was taken captive she was a lady she
wasn't a young girl she was a lady but she was the daughter of the leader so
she came to Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam she asked to see him
and she was given the permission to see him and she says oh messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam I am captive I am the daughter of so
and so I would like to buy my freedom I'd like to make a payment
and I'd like to buy my freedom now there are narrations in the books of
history that make mention of her father having heard that my daughter is
captive so he took a group of camels a number of camels and he came with
them to Madinah Munawwara in order to pay as a ransom for his own
daughter's release and on his way he decided you know two of these camels
let me keep them he brought whatever he had two of them let me lose them
on the way I'll put them somewhere in the desert here on my return at least
I'll get these two camels so he came to Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
al-Harith ibn Abi Dhirah the head of Banu al-Mustaliq and he says I have
come to you I would like to give you the camels that are there is a
payment for the release of my daughter the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
stops him and says oh Harith I want to ask you where are the other two
camels that you had left they're in the desert he says and how would
anyone know that I did this and this resulted in him being called to Islam
and he took the Shahada he accepted Islam Subhanallah his daughter was
released and married by Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Subhanallah they accepted Islam and when they accepted Islam it is
reported that her name was Juwairiyah bint al-Harith the daughter of
this al-Harith ibn Abi Dhirah her name was Juwairiyah bint al-Harith
but there are narrations that say no her name was either Barra or Al-Batta and
the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam changed the name because it did not have a
suitable meaning so he named her Juwairiyah after that whatever the
case was her name according to us Ummul Mumineen she was Juwairiyah bint
al-Harith may Allah grant her goodness
something very interesting happened at that moment when the Prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam got married to her the Nikah was done news spread amongst the
companions that the Prophet has married Juwairiyah bint al-Harith
immediately they all said well these are now our in-laws so we free all of
them because we cannot hold captive our own in-laws so the entire tribe or
all of them were set free and all those families who had had so many
captives amongst the Muslims were set free it is reported that with
this gesture Banu al-Mustaliq accepted Islam in totality subhanallah they saw the
goodness of the Muslims and they saw how they were treated and they saw how
they were released they saw how the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam married
into them and this was also the wisdom that was granted to Rasulullah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam by Allah sallallahu alaihi wa ta'ala divine
ruling because look at the love in the hearts of the people they had
intended to come to war they were fighting they were captive and here
they are accepting Islam all of them subhanallah may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us understanding with us nobody is fighting us and at the same time we
are so fortunate nobody's captive still we don't want to adopt the laws
of the Sharia may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us sometimes we
cannot let go of a bad habit to please Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala where
are we and where are these people may Allah protect us we need to
identify our bad habits give them up for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa
ta'ala so this was a very very beautiful story the Prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam this same jewelry at a Binti Harith she was a person who
was so pious she used to sit on the Musalla for hours on end there is a
hadith she makes mention of in Sahih Muslim the Prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam is reported by the hadith of jewelry at a Binti Harith
she says I was once sitting on my Musalla when the Prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam left for Salatul Fajr and he came back when the Sun had risen and
when he came back he saw me sitting on the same place engaging in the
Dhikr of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala so he says have you been sitting here
all along she says yes I was sitting here all along the obviously engaged
in Dhikr remembrance of Allah he says I will teach you four words if you
repeat them thrice they are better than everything you uttered from the
time I left to the time I returned if they were to put on to be put on the
scale so what are those words let's learn them
subhanallah wa bi hamdihi adada khalqihi wa ridha nafsihi wa zinata arshihi
wa midada kalimatihi four words subhanallah wa bi hamdihi we declare
the praise of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's praise and
his glory how much that's the question isn't it how much are we declaring we
are declaring it with four words adada khalqi we declare his praise and
glory the number of creatures he has created that's how much number one
waridha nafsihi and we declare his glory and his praise until he is
pleased wa zinata arshihi and we declare his glory and his praise the
weight equivalent to the weight of his arch obviously that's infinity
Allahu Akbar wa midada kalimatihi and as as stretched as all his words
the words and the signs of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala as broad as all
that subhanallah look at how beautifully this is worded may Allah
grant it to us I want to repeat this because we are taught from this
Hadith if we repeat these four words thrice in the morning it is better for
us than having sat for quite a while if that was told to her
Juwayriya bint al-Harith radiallahu anha what about us subhanallah wa bi
hamdihi adada khalqi wa ridha nafsihi wa zinata arshihi wa midada
kalimatihi so this was Juwayriya bint al-Harith radiallahu anha now
the battle of Banu al-Mustaliq the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam was
faced with something else he was still returning from the battle he was still
returning from the battle and the hypocrites started their mischief again
this time they were with the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam obviously I
just skipped for a moment and went to what had happened with the marriage
of Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasalam and so on but here we are
now going back to where the battle was Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool
his mischief again a man from amongst the muhajireen and a man from
amongst the ansar had had a quarrel they had a quarrel a debate so the one
calls his people against the other and the term that they used to use at
that time was quite a tribalistic term to call the tribe against another
tribe so he called his tribe and that one calls his own tribe and it
became a bit hot and Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool wanted to see war
between the muhajireen and the ansar in the meantime the messenger
salallahu alaihi wasalam hears about this he comes out and he says stop
saying those words they are netina they are dirty and they are filthy words
which means we do not believe in tribalism and we are not racists as
Muslims those are dirty filthy unacceptable words you do not call
your tribe and this one called his tribe no tribes are better inna
akramakum inda Allahi atqaakum the most honored in the eyes of Allah from
amongst you are those who are the most pious you can be any color you can
belong to any tribe you can belong to any race this is the messenger
salallahu alaihi wasalam's message the most honored in the eyes of Allah from
amongst you are those who are most conscious of him this is what makes
you more virtuous and this is what makes you better and the only one who
knows consciousness of Allah is Allah alone Allah knows the condition of
the heart may Allah grant us piety so the war had stopped or the battle
had stopped Abdullah ibn Ubay it wasn't actually a battle but it was just like
a little bit of a misunderstanding it was settled immediately Abdullah ibn
Ubay ibn Sallul was upset because he was a hypocrite he wanted to see them
fighting and he started telling his people he had a group of people with
him he started saying you see this man you people brought them him and his
people the muhajireen you brought them you gave them your your clothing you
gave them your homes you gave them your wealth and you're opening them
and you are feeding them in order for them to come back and attack you one
day so he is now instilling hatred in the hearts or trying to instill hatred
in the hearts of people but he did not succeed he kept on saying this then he
says you will see when we get back to Medina those who have power will
remove those who are weak and downtrodden and those who are higher
will remove those who are lower
they say when we go back to Medina those who are higher will remove those who
are lower those who are superior will remove those who are inferior who is
he referring to he is referring to the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam being
inferior na'udhu billah and so when this statement came out there was a
young boy this young boy he was Zayd ibn Arqam he heard these words from
Abdullah ibn Ubay he told his people look don't spend and don't give money to
these muhajireen until they disperse from the messenger and they stop
listening to him they need to listen to us when they listen to us we'll give
them money this is the attitude of a lot of people today money will only
come when I am the boss you consider me boss then I give you the money
Allahu Akbar if you don't consider me boss and I have no say in what's
going on here why must I give you any money may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make
us from those who spend in the correct cause the correct cause is not
dictated by us it's by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala how can we have a
say we cannot say look I will give money to the masjid on condition that
you make a door that leads from there to my house what is that may Allah
protect us and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness so this
was Abdullah ibn Ubaid he says
they are the ones Allah is exposing them saying they are the ones who are
saying don't spend upon these people until they disperse from the Prophet
salallahu alaihi wasalam then you can give them so this Zayd ibn arqam
comes to his uncle he tells his uncle this is what I heard Abdullah ibn
Ubaid saying and his uncle goes to Rasulullah salallahu alaihi wasalam this is
what I heard him saying he is instilling hatred trying to instill hatred and to
to really cause problem so the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam was a very
straight man the straightest of all ever he calls Abdullah ibn Ubaid did
you say this he says wallahi I did not say anything of that nature wallahi
I promised by Allah I didn't make a statement of this nature so then the
Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam calls the young man the young boy what did
you hear he says this is what I heard now two speech clashing two points of
speech clashing this man's and that man's this young man's so the Prophet
salallahu alaihi wasalam told Zayd ibn arqam perhaps you know some of the
companions said maybe he might have heard wrong he might have this he
might have that so the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam felt that
okay perhaps he meant something else perhaps he didn't say it perhaps it
wasn't exactly like that do you know what happened Allah sends down
Quran one whole Surah Surat al-Munafiqun again that's a Surah we need
to go back and read now you'll understand exactly what it says there
because you know the story behind the whole Surah and Allah exposes this
hypocrite Abdullah ibn Ubaid and Allah says
when these hypocrites come to you they say we bear witness that you are the
messenger Allah knows that they are lying and Allah bears witness that
these hypocrites are liars and then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala exposes the
entire scene in the same Surah and Allah says yes he is the one who said
this and he is the one who said when we go to Medina the superior will
remove the inferior and he is the one who said that do not spend on these
people until they leave and disperse from Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala exposes them and this is why Allah says
O you who believe don't ever let your wealth and your family members
distract you from the remembrance of your maker don't let that happen your
family members yes we look after them your wealth yes we would like to earn
but not at the expense of your faith and your belief and your religion and
your link with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala may Allah grant us sustenance that is
pure and good so Usaid ibn Hudayr radiallahu anh when he heard that
Abdullah ibn Ubaid ibn Salul had said the superior will remove the
inferior when we get to Medina we're going to hatch a plan in order to
remove Muhammad and so on he came to the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam he
asked a question oh messenger why is it that we are suddenly leaving Banu
al-Mustaliq we are leaving in the heat normally they would wait until it's
a bit cool but they were instructed to leave in the heat the Prophet
salallahu alaihi wasallam did not want the message meaning the
companions to be talking about this so he left in the heat and he started
to return to Medina Munawwara Usaid ibn Hudayr radiallahu anh who comes
and he asks he says why are we doing this he says didn't you hear that man
saying these words Usaid ibn Hudayr says wallahi you are the superior and he is
the inferior subhanallah so he will be removed not you and this was the
passion of the Sahabah radiallahu anh may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
even a fraction of it for indeed it would elevate us in every single way
then comes a very very serious story which we will commence this evening
and inshallah we will continue with tomorrow what had happened is Aisha
radiallahu anha as they were returning from Banu al-Mustaliq as you heard
moments ago they were rushing out because of things that had happened
and at that time they used to be something known as a hodaj on top of
the camel for the women they were covered in an enclosure a little small
tent like structure that was on top of the camel which was covering them
protecting them from the Sun and at the same time being more privacy for them
and what they used to do when the camel sits they would lift that whole thing
off and they would put it aside they would go away and the females would
then engage in whatever they have to and later on when they had to depart
they would carry it respectfully put it back on the back of the camel and
they would depart so Aisha radiallahu anha says that when this army was
there I lost a necklace of mine so I went out to look for this necklace
and when I was looking for the necklace the army departed they had taken this
hodaj lifted it thinking I was on as it is I was quite young and I was not
quite heavy they wouldn't have known if there was a person in there or not
they put it on the camel and they departed when I got back to where the
hodaj was I noticed everybody's gone I was shocked and I was dressed in
black covered in black and she says radiallahu anha I paused for a
moment they're hoping that they would probably notice that I'm not there and
they would come back to see me and in the interim I fell asleep when I fell
asleep Safwani bin Mu'attal radiallahu anhu after some time he was
passing by and he noticed something black and he stopped and as he stopped
I got up and when I got up I only heard him say inna lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji'un
that's all I heard him say nothing else no other statement no greeting no
talking no nothing there was nothing that happened he only said inna lillahi
wa inna ilayhi raji'un and he had assisted Aisha radiallahu anha he let
the camel come down she had got on he let her get onto the camel and took
her to Madinatul Munawwara when they got to Madinah Munawwara
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool the head of these hypocrites he seized the
opportunity to create a rumor and what was the rumor the rumor was that Aisha
has engaged in the sin with Safwani bin Mu'attal and this was the
purest of the women who existed and she was the wife of the best of
creation and the man they are making mention of Safwani bin Mu'attal
was a man who was a very good man as well brilliant never had they heard
from this Sahabi any form of immorality not at all and so this
rumor caused a lot of discomfort amongst the people in Madinah
Munawwara and people began to spread it they were divided into a few
groups the first group the one who created the rumor his name was
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool the second group those who were responsible
to spread the rumor and the third group those who did not believe it at
all and they said this is an absolute fabrication and a lie may Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness inshallah tomorrow we will see what
happened thereafter and how Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala clarified the
name of Aisha radiallahu anha by revelation that is in Surah al-Nur
that we read up to this day may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala cleanse us as well
until we meet again